Really I just wanted to talk to you about
one last thing called Amdahl's law,
which is a super, super quick thing.
And it's even funny that it's a law or
it has a name because it's so obvious,
it just hurts.
Which is that,
imagine you have an application, right?
And you have some piece of code that's
hot that you wanna optimize, right?
But that piece of code
only is 5% of the time, so
if you make it amazing ten times faster,
right?
Which means instead of 5%, now it is
half a percent, so you saved four and
a half percent and now your code is
four and a half percent faster, right?
So this thing talks about is that, you
can get amazing performance improvements
over small code, but it really matters
how it is in the big picture, right?
And if the big picture of that
code isn't used very often,
then you're not gonna see a huge
performance improvement overall, right?
So for example, we talked about how JSX
could be like orders of magnitude faster
in terms of running and doing stuff.
And it's true, but overall that
piece of code represents maybe 2, 3,
4% of the overall execution
of the application, right?
So even if you can make that zero,
overall you've only
improved the application speed by
a couple of percentage points, and so
that may not be worth
the work that you need.
Anyways, Amdahl's law is mostly used in
kind of the hardware design, etc., but
I think it's appropriate here.
And I kind of just wanted to put
things in perspective that like, hey,
don't just go optimizing everything
all the time crazy, right?
Because fundamentally,
you write code for yourself first.
It's only secondary and
incidental for the computer.
The computer can execute the craziest,
ugliest code you have, just as fine,
it does not get a headache.
I will get a headache trying
to read the crazy code, right?
So we write code for us first, make it
pretty so that future self will thank you.
The fact that sometimes we come across
code that really needs to be optimized and
these tricks matter, then yeah,
sure, we can do that.
And sometimes, for example,
some things are just good idea,
like using triple equals
over double equals,
it's hard to argue that using
double equals is better, right?
So just use it cuz it's just easier.
It doesn't make it any harder to read
what's going on or understand etc.
I can also make a pretty good
argument that like, hey,
initialize all of your properties at the
beginning because it just makes it easier
to understand what's
happening in your code.
And it just so also happens to make the
code run faster because the inline caches
and hidden classes that we talked about,
etc., right?
So I would say, primarily, do these
things because they're a good idea for
you as a human and
only later do them for the computer.
Most things I've shown you were really, I
wanted to show you not necessarily tricks
to kind of hack the system, but more I
wanted to show you how the system works.
How the machine underneath and
the virtual machine on the top,
how they talk to each other and how they
create this illusion of having JavaScript.
Because it is an illusion, right?
At end of the day.
It doesn't exist, the hardware doesn't
know how to execute JavaScript.
And so we go through these layers of
trickery that we create this illusion
that we have JavaScript for us,
running inside of the modern CPU.